Welcome back once again we've created JWT token.
We've stored it into our rattus database.
We're sending it back to the user.
But now we have one last issue and that is how do we store this information on the computer of the user.
Because if they refresh they need a way to store this token so that they don't have to sign in over
and over again.
And we also need to send this token actually in the authorization header so we can get our profile and
we're going to learn how to do that and this video will look.
Now we're going to go back to the front end here and do some things.
We know that when we sign in we receive the user id and the token and we need a way to first of all
save this token somewhere on our browser so that on each subsequent request we're going to attach it
to the header.
Let me show you how that's done.
We do have some windows around.
Let's do our front end window up here.
And we're going to use the sign component to actually do this because seinen on submit seinen.
This is where we're doing our logic where we received the data user ID.
Now the first thing we're going to do is we're going to create a new method called Save let's call it
save auth token in sessions and a very descriptive name but hopefully this way it will stick.
And this is going to receive a token that we get from the backend and this token is going to be stored
in something called the window datt session.
Storage.
Now what is session storage.
And it's on the window object so it means it's coming from the browser Well session storage is a way
for us to save information onto a browser so that even if we refresh the page it still remembers it.
It still remembers the session.
We can check this by going to Applications tab.
And our developer tools.
And just like we've seen before we have the manifest service worker we have cookies here.
We also have local storage and session storage now session stores here as you can see has information
a key value information that we can store and even if I refresh the browser is going to remember it.
Now the difference between session and local storage will actually explore that in a little bit.
But for now we're going to use session storage and store a key and a value that is we're going to store
our session or our tokin in here.
Let's see how we can do that.
I'm going to say session storage and this is a browser API that we can use and we simply give it a set
item.
To say that the key is going to be called tokin and the value of the key is going to be the actual token
and that's it.
We are just using this browser API and we didn't save the token.
So let's actually use this in the par where we received the token.
All we need to do is perhaps instead of just checking data user ID or we can even add a
data dot success to equals.
True because remember that's where we send from the backend now.
And here before we do the load user and on route change we can just simply say this dot save off token
in sessions and we're going to give it the data.
Dot token that we receive.
Again remember that in our network tab if you look at seinen which we've lost close to that one more
time.
Well we don't need to do that one more time because we remember it the token is received in the data
token.
So I'm going to sign in and see if this works.
Let's save
known to make this a little bit smaller.
Press say dot.com.
A sign in.
All right now nothing crazy happened but if we go to applications look at that we have our token now
stored here.
So even if I refresh this token exists and I can refresh refresh token exists if I open up a new window
and go to localhost three thousand one and I open up developer tools so there's no session in here.
That's not good.
But what if we add local storage on to here instead of session storage.
If we do local storage and sign in again you're going to close this and tried this out all over again.
I'm going to refresh.
We're going to clear the smoke in to make sure that it's completely empty and then I'm going to seinen.
All right.
Now we have nothing in session storage but we have something in local storage and I like session storage
if I refresh.
I have this in local stores but also if I open up a new window and do local host three thousand one
that I have my local storage in here and I recommend using session storage I personally prefer that
over local storage.
But depending on your need you can use whichever one you want.
Again local storage persists a little bit longer than session storage session storage is simply just
for one single session.
All right let's close this up and change this to session storage.
Now we have a bit of an issue here.
We're still being asked to sign in every single time and that is because on the back end if you remember
we do a check to get off token ID and we haven't really sent our authorization headers when we sign
in with our token.
Right now we're always going through the handle sign and because we've never set the authorization Hetter.
So let's do that on the front end.
Let's set the authorization header in the sign in.
Well this is for the sign in page remember.
And the sign in page only shows up if you remember and go back to opt out.
Yes.
And by the way this app dodgy is getting a little big.
We might see why we want to incorporate redux or separate out some of these methods.
However if we scroll all the way down we see that the sign in page shows up whenever the route is seinen.
So the sign and page would should only show up in those instances when the user is not signed in.
So perhaps up here in our main component that is the app before we do anything when component did mount.
That is the first lifecycle method that is going to be heard before anything is rendered.
We want to check something.
We want to see if there's a session storage item a token that we can just use so we can avoid all the
sine and logic and in here we can simply do a concert token and we're going to check the session storage
we're going to say window session storage and here we're going say get item instead of said item and
we're simply going to get the token that we have.
If they have a token now within here we'll simply say if there is a token well in that case just fetch
us a new thing and this new thing is going to be our sign in and point
and this sign in and point is going to have a few different things than what we've had before.
First it's going to be a second parameter that has a method of posts which we've seen before.
It's going to have headers
that is an object.
Well first thing we have is a content type.
We have to tell it what type it's going to be.
And we're going to be sending it application Jaison again because we're going to send it into the body
of the request but also a new edition is going to be the authorization hatters and this is just default
headers say you can set with HGP and these authorization headers is simply going to have token the token
that we have in our session storage.
Now just a heads up here.
Actually the way you want to set authorization this standard is to do something like barer and then
space
add the token to that bear.
And I'm going to leave information for you to read up more about this.
And it's a fairly easy thing to implement.
For now though just to keep things simple I'm going to leave it like that so that we're sending the
token with the authorization headers.
And now we simply do a dot then and this dog then is going to receive the data.
That we return which is going to be the user id remember.
So we're going to do.
Yes statement and this if statement is going to be data.
If there's data and perhaps we'll do another check for data ID
and if that works out well then in that case I'm just going to say success for now.
We need to get user profile and let's just add a dot catch here just incase anything is out.
And for now I'll just do a console log.
All right let's save this.
Make sure there's no errors and go over what just happened in sign in dodgy us because this will be
the first time that the user comes in.
There is no authorization token that they have.
So they must sign in.
They send their email and password.
And if everything checks out the database is going to return for us the data token which we're going
to save to our sessions in our browser.
Now if a user refreshes and comes back to our app the first thing that gets rendered is the apt.
Yes in there any component did mount before anything happens.
We check the windows start sessions.
We're going to get tokin and see if there's a token because if there isn't well nothing's going to happen
and we're just going to keep going with our day like we've done before.
Otherwise if there is a token we're going to run the seinen and point because we no longer need to click
that sign in Boston and to have the on submit sign and function we automatically match and give the
authorization token Hetter so that the autokey and header if we go to the back end is going to say oh
there's an auto scan I'm just going to get the authorization token I.D. from our rattus database and
I'm just going to respond.
With your I.D..
So that way when we go back within here we can do a fresh request to get profile.
All right let's give it a go.
Let's test this out.
I'm going to make sure that there's no tokens.
Let's go to sessions and local storage.
I'm going to delete that.
Everything is clear.
And I'm going to say a COM A Let's sign an.
All right.
I'm able to sign in if I go to console.
It looks like this.
Didn't get run but that makes sense because we've just signed in we just received our session token.
However if I refresh now
and I'm not getting anything because well you might have noticed this.
I need to actually run the dot then response remember all our good friend Jason method to make sure
that we can read this information.
Let's say that and go back here hey success.
We need to get the user profile because we have the token success we need to get the user profile.
If I go back and delete the session go to cons. And I refresh.
No.
No success.
You need to sign in my friend.
Very very cool.
All right.
So in the next video we're going to implement this part of getting our user profile I'll see seeing
that one.